index.md, before:

---
layout: page
---

<img width="100%" src="/assets/jump-logo-with-text.svg">

JuMP is a modeling language and supporting packages for mathematical
optimization in [Julia](https://julialang.org).

## 4th annual JuMP-dev

We are pleased to announce that the 4th annual JuMP-dev workshop will be held
June 15-17 2020 in [Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium](https://goo.gl/maps/fyxqevrKn76nvhwq9),
in conjunction with UCLouvain.

Further details, including a call for speakers, will be announced shortly.

For information on the previous JuMP-dev workshops, see:
[2019](meetings/santiago2019/), [2018](meetings/bordeaux2018/), [2017](meetings/mit2017/).

## Getting started

To get started, read the [Installation Guide](https://www.juliaopt.org/JuMP.jl/stable/installation/)
in the JuMP documentation.

Once you've installed JuMP, a good next step is the [Quickstart Guide](https://www.juliaopt.org/JuMP.jl/stable/quickstart/).

There are also a number of tutorials available at [JuMPTutorials.jl](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/JuMPTutorials.jl).

If you need help, search the [Forum](https://discourse.julialang.org/c/domain/opt)
for similar questions, or open a new one.

## NumFOCUS

![NumFOCUS logo](/assets/numfocus-logo.png)

JuMP is a Sponsored Project of NumFOCUS, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit charity in the
United States. NumFOCUS provides JuMP with fiscal, legal, and administrative
support to help ensure the health and sustainability of the project. Visit
[numfocus.org](https://numfocus.org) for more information.

You can support JuMP by [donating](https://numfocus.salsalabs.org/donate-to-jump/index.html).

Donations to JuMP are managed by NumFOCUS. For donors in the United States,
your gift is tax-deductible to the extent provided by law. As with any donation,
you should consult with your tax adviser about your particular tax situation.

JuMP's largest expense is the annual JuMP-dev workshop. Donations will help us
provide travel support for JuMP-dev attendees and take advantage of other
opportunities that arise to support JuMP development.

Commit message:

Add ROADEF and Chang's book

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
---

<img width="100%" src="/assets/jump-logo-with-text.svg">

JuMP is a modeling language and supporting packages for mathematical
optimization in [Julia](https://julialang.org).

## 4th annual JuMP-dev

We are pleased to announce that the 4th annual JuMP-dev workshop will be held
June 15-17 2020 in [Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium](https://goo.gl/maps/fyxqevrKn76nvhwq9),
in conjunction with UCLouvain.

Further details, including a call for speakers, will be announced shortly.

For information on the previous JuMP-dev workshops, see:
[2019](meetings/santiago2019/), [2018](meetings/bordeaux2018/), [2017](meetings/mit2017/).

## Getting started

To get started, read the [Installation Guide](https://www.juliaopt.org/JuMP.jl/stable/installation/)
in the JuMP documentation.

Once you've installed JuMP, a good next step is the [Quickstart Guide](https://www.juliaopt.org/JuMP.jl/stable/quickstart/).

There are also a number of tutorials available at [JuMPTutorials.jl](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/JuMPTutorials.jl).

If you need help, search the [Forum](https://discourse.julialang.org/c/domain/opt)
for similar questions, or open a new one.

There is also an excellent book, [Julia Programming for Operations Research](http://www.chkwon.net/julia/), which covers a variety of topics on optimization, with an emphasis on
solving practical problems using JuMP and Julia.

## NumFOCUS

![NumFOCUS logo](/assets/numfocus-logo.png)

JuMP is a Sponsored Project of NumFOCUS, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit charity in the
United States. NumFOCUS provides JuMP with fiscal, legal, and administrative
support to help ensure the health and sustainability of the project. Visit
[numfocus.org](https://numfocus.org) for more information.

You can support JuMP by [donating](https://numfocus.salsalabs.org/donate-to-jump/index.html).

Donations to JuMP are managed by NumFOCUS. For donors in the United States,
your gift is tax-deductible to the extent provided by law. As with any donation,
you should consult with your tax adviser about your particular tax situation.

JuMP's largest expense is the annual JuMP-dev workshop. Donations will help us
provide travel support for JuMP-dev attendees and take advantage of other
opportunities that arise to support JuMP development.
