---
layout: post
title:  "JuMP 0.21 is released"
date:   2020-02-18
categories: [releases]
permalink: /blog/0.21-release/
---

We are happy to announce the release of JuMP 0.21! Since the 0.20 release,
32 pull requests have been merged and 34 issues closed
(listed [here](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/JuMP.jl/releases/tag/v0.21.0)).
The release is packed with new features and contains a couple of breaking
changes. We'll give only a quick summary of the changes here. See the
[release notes](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/JuMP.jl/blob/master/NEWS.md#version-021-feb-16-2020) for more details. Here's an *incomplete* list of new features:

- The return of support for solver-independent callbacks. Callback support had
been dropped temporarily during the transition to MathOptInterface between
JuMP 0.18 and 0.19.
- Reading from and writing a JuMP model to a file. Supported formats include
CBF, LP, MathOptFormat, MPS, and SDPA.
- Better inference of container element types. For example, `@expression` can
now be used to generate collections of quadratic expressions.
(May break code that is sensitive to container types.)
- Support for modeling complementarity and indicator constraints.
- Support for querying multiple solutions from a solver.
- Fast batch deletion of variables.

The most visible breaking change stems from a refactoring of how we handle
solver parameters. They are now treated more transparently through
MathOptInterface's *optimizer attribute* mechanism rather than being passed
as constructor keyword arguments. The effect of this is that `with_optimizer`
has been replaced by `optimizer_with_attributes` and `set_optimizer_attribute`.
Follow the examples in the deprecation warnings as a guide to update existing
code.

This release knocks out a number of major items on our
[roadmap](http://www.juliaopt.org/JuMP.jl/v0.21.0/roadmap/) for JuMP 1.0. Stay
tuned for more progress!
