---
layout: post
title:  "JuMP-dev 2020: Abstract Submission"
date:   2020-01-07
categories: [jump-dev]
permalink: /meetings/louvain2020/
---

June 15-17, 2020, [Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium](https://goo.gl/maps/fyxqevrKn76nvhwq9).

This workshop is the fourth JuMP-dev workshop after the [first](/meetings/mit2017/),
[second](/meetings/bordeaux2018/), and [third](/meetings/santiago2019) JuMP-dev workshops.

The purpose of the workshop is to bring together students, researchers, and practitioners
with interests in the software aspects of [JuMP](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/JuMP.jl) and
related packages. The workshop is open for anybody to attend. In particular, we invite new
contributors and those who have not met the core development team.

## Abstract Submission

**[Submit an abstract.](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd7d3TJ2de0GSD56lEBrR8e6KmVlPANjwNsr09KroSAuIq-Xw/viewform?usp=sf_link)**

Similarly to previous iterations of the workshop, we invite participants to
(optionally) present work related to JuMP. In particular, we especially seek
talks related to:

- JuMP core development ([MathOptInterface](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/MathOptInterface.jl), JuMP 1.0)
- Mathematical optimization solvers written in Julia
- Automatic differentiation in Julia (e.g., Cassette, Zygote)
- Julia interfaces to solvers
- JuMP extensions (stochastic programming, robust optimization, multiobjective optimization, ...)
- Optimization libraries that use JuMP
- Developer tools for JuMP
- Commercial use of JuMP
- JuMP for teaching

Speakers are encouraged to highlight challenges and lessons learned, not only successes.
Talks should be aimed at a general audience, but familiarity with JuMP/Julia can be assumed.

See the [previous](/meetings/mit2017/) [JuMP-dev](/meetings/bordeaux2018/)
[workshops](/meetings/santiago2019) for examples of accepted talks.

Abstract submission will close **February 29**, and we expect to notify accepted speakers in
early March.

## Registration

A registration portal will be created shortly. Unlike previous years, there will be a
small registration fee.

## Venue and accommodation

The workshop takes place in the Foyer Royal, [Aula Magna, Place Raymond Lemaire 1, 1348 Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve](https://goo.gl/maps/TNjFms4MW4GXPewJ6).
Note that [the city of Leuven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leuven) is called "Louvain" in French.
This might cause confusion when traveling to Louvain-la-Neuve in Belgium as in Wallonia (the French speaking part of Belgium) transportations heading to Leuven will claim to go to Louvain.
One might then think that "Louvain" is a shortened version of "Louvain-la-Neuve" but it is not.
The shortened version of "Louvain-la-Neuve" is "LLN", "Louvain" always means "Leuven".

We have reserved rooms for attendees with a reduced price at the Martin's hotel in front of the venue.
To book one of these rooms, follow [this link](https://reservations.cubilis.eu/martins-louvain-la-neuve) and use the code UCL140620 with the dates between 14th of June and 18th of June 2020.
You can choose between the Cosy Queen room at 140 € per night and the Charming Double room at 160 € per night.
This price also includes the breakfast, the tourist tax and the access to fitness and the swimming pool.
Note that this code will only work until the 11th of May.

## Plenary speaker

[Yurii Nesterov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yurii_Nesterov) will give a plenary during the workshop, more details on the topic and schedule will be communicated shortly.

## Committee

- Oscar Dowson (Northwestern; Program Chair)
- Benoît Legat (UCLouvain; Local Organization)
- Xavier Gandibleux (Nantes)
- Joaquim Garcia (PSR & PUC-Rio)
- Changhyun Kwon (U. South Florida)
- Miles Lubin (Google)
- Juan Pablo Vielma (MIT)
- François Glineur (UCLouvain; Local Organization)
- Raphaël Jungers (UCLouvain; Local Organization)
- Anthony Papavasiliou (UCLouvain; Local Organization)
