---
layout: page
title:  "JuMP-dev 2021"
date:   2021-04-20
categories: [jump-dev]
permalink: /meetings/juliacon2021/
---

We are pleased to announce that JuMP-dev 2021 will be co-located with
[JuliaCon 2021](https://juliacon.org/2021/)!

This year JuliaCon is virtual, and will be held 28-30 July, 2021.

The purpose of JuMP-dev is to bring together students, researchers, and
practitioners with interests in the software aspects of
[JuMP](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl) and related packages. In particular,
we invite new contributors and those who have not met the core development team.

### How to attend

JuliaCon 2021 is entirely virtual and free to attend, but
[registration is required](https://juliacon.org/2021/tickets/).

Logistically, JuMP-dev will function as a separate track of JuliaCon. By
registering for JuliaCon you can attend talks at JuMP-dev and JuliaCon.

All participants will uphold the [JuliaCon Code of Conduct](https://juliacon.org/2021/coc/).

### How to give a talk

Similarly to [previous](/meetings/mit2017) [iterations](/meetings/bordeaux2018)
of the [workshop](/meetings/santiago2019), we invite participants to present
work related to JuMP. In particular, we especially seek talks related to:

- JuMP core development ([MathOptInterface](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/MathOptInterface.jl), JuMP 1.0)
- Mathematical optimization solvers written in Julia
- Automatic differentiation in Julia (e.g., Cassette, Zygote)
- Julia interfaces to solvers
- JuMP extensions (stochastic programming, robust optimization, multiobjective optimization, ...)
- Optimization libraries that use JuMP
- Developer tools for JuMP
- Commercial use of JuMP
- JuMP for teaching

Speakers are encouraged to highlight challenges and lessons learned, not only
successes. Talks should be aimed at a general audience, but familiarity with
JuMP/Julia can be assumed.

See the [previous](/meetings/mit2017/) [JuMP-dev](/meetings/bordeaux2018/)
[workshops](/meetings/santiago2019) for examples of accepted talks.

Use the form below to submit an abstract. Abstract submission will close May 31,
2021, and accepted talks will be notified in early June. Because JuliaCon is
virtual, accepted speakers will need to upload a pre-recorded video of their 
talk by mid-July.

If you have already submitted a talk to JuliaCon and would like to speak in the
JuMP track instead, please submit the same abstract and let us know in the 
"Additional comments" section so we can take it into consideration when 
scheduling talks. Whether you can switch will depend on scheduling constraints.
You can also submit a different talk to JuMP-dev in addition to your talk at 
JuliaCon.

<div style="position:relative; width:100%; overflow:hidden; padding-top:100%;">
<iframe
    src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc4i6G9kkuRJcJh6qlH32M4vnY7_rZEhL3x6J6nuQOJNpFSBw/viewform?embedded=true"
    style="position:absolute; top:0; left:0; bottom:0; right:0; width:100%; height:100%; border:none"
>Loading…</iframe>
</div>

To contact the organizing committee, write to [jump-dev-2021@googlegroups.com](mailto:jump-dev-2021@googlegroups.com).
