---
layout: page
title:  "JuMP-dev 2022"
date:   2022-01-31
categories: [jump-dev]
permalink: /meetings/juliacon2022/
---

We are pleased to announce that JuMP-dev 2022 will be co-located with
[JuliaCon 2022](https://juliacon.org/20212)!

This year JuliaCon is virtual, and will be held 27-29 July, 2022.

## Outline

The purpose of JuMP-dev is to bring together students, researchers, and
practitioners with interests in the methodological, algorithmic, and software aspects of
[JuMP](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl) and related packages. In particular,
we invite new contributors and those who have not met the core development team.

## How do I attend?

JuliaCon 2022 is entirely virtual and free to attend, but
[registration is required](https://juliacon.org/2022/tickets/).

All participants will uphold the [JuliaCon Code of Conduct](https://juliacon.org/2022/coc/).

## How do I give a talk?

Similarly to [previous](/meetings/mit2017) [iterations](/meetings/bordeaux2018)
[of the](/meetings/santiago2019) [workshop](/meetings/juliacon2021), we invite
participants to present work related to JuMP. In particular, we especially seek
talks related to:

- JuMP core development ([MathOptInterface](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/MathOptInterface.jl), JuMP 1.0)
- Mathematical optimization solvers written in Julia
- Automatic differentiation in Julia (e.g., Cassette, Zygote)
- Julia interfaces to mathematical optimization solvers
- JuMP extensions (stochastic programming, robust optimization, multiobjective optimization, ...)
- Software that uses JuMP
- Developer tools for JuMP
- Commercial use of JuMP
- Uses of JuMP in teaching

Speakers are encouraged to highlight challenges and lessons learned, not only
successes. Talks should be aimed at a general audience, but familiarity with
JuMP/Julia can be assumed.

See the previous workshops for examples of accepted talks:
 * [2017](/meetings/mit2017/)
 * [2018](/meetings/bordeaux2018/)
 * [2019](/meetings/santiago2019)
 * [2021](/meetings/juliacon2021).

**To give a talk, [submit a proposal to JuliaCon](https://juliacon.org/2022/proposal/),
and select "JuMP" when asked for what type of talk you are submitting.**

(Proposal submission is currently closed. This page will be updated with more
instructions, including due dates, once submission is open.)

## Program committee

 * Oscar Dowson
 * Mathieu Besançon (ZIB)
 * Theo Diamandis (MIT)
 * Joaquim Dias Garcia (PSR)
 * Benoît Legat (MIT)
 * Miles Lubin (Google)
 * François Pacaud (ANL)

To contact the program committee, write to [jump-dev-2022@googlegroups.com](mailto:jump-dev-2022@googlegroups.com).
