---
layout: post
title:  "JuMP 0.23 is released"
date:   2022-02-25
categories: [releases]
permalink: /blog/0.23-release/
---

We are happy to announce the release of JuMP v0.23.

This is an important release for two reasons.

First, it serves as a [release candidate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Release_candidate)
for JuMP v1.0. Our criteria for tagging an official JuMP 1.0 release are:

 * there have been no bugs requiring a breaking change detected in JuMP v0.23
   for at least one week
 * all commonly used solvers in the JuMP ecosystem have been updated to be
   compatible with JuMP v0.23. You can track our progress in
   [Issue #2564](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl/issues/2564).

Second, this release contains a number of breaking changes in preparation for
JuMP v1.0. These include:

 * Julia 1.6 is now the minimum supported version
 * All previously deprecated functionality has been removed. See the
   troubleshooting section below for advice on how to update code that uses
   previously deprecated functionality.
 * `PrintMode`, `REPLMode` and `IJuliaMode` have been removed in favor of the
   MIME types `MIME"text/plain"` and `MIME"text/latex"`. Replace instances of
   `::Type{REPLMode}` with `::MIME"text/plain"`, `REPLMode` with
   `MIME("text/plain")`, `::Type{IJuliaMode}` with `::MIME"text/latex"`, and
   `IJuliaMode` with `MIME("text/latex")`.
 * Functions containing the `nl_` acronym have been renamed to the more
   explicit `nonlinear_`. For example, `num_nl_constraints` is now
   `num_nonlinear_constraints` and `set_NL_objective` is now
   `set_nonlinear_objective`. Calls to the old functions throw an error
   explaining the new name.
 * `SymMatrixSpace` has been renamed to `SymmetricMatrixSpace`

### Troubleshooting problems when updating

If you experience problems when updating, you are likely using previously
deprecated functionality. (By default, Julia does not warn when you use
deprecated features.)

To find the deprecated features you are using, start Julia with `--depwarn=yes`:
```
$ julia --depwarn=yes
```
Then install JuMP v0.22.3:
```julia
julia> using Pkg
julia> pkg"add JuMP@0.22.3"
```
And then run your code. Apply any suggestions, or search the [release notes](https://jump.dev/JuMP.jl/dev/release_notes/)
for advice on updating a specific deprecated feature.

Onward to JuMP 1.0!
