---
layout: page
title:  "JuMP-dev 2023"
date:   2022-11-20
categories: [jump-dev]
permalink: /meetings/jumpdev2023/
---

The JuMP steering committee is still confirming the details of JuMP-dev 2023.

It will **either** be co-located with JuliaCon 2023, **or** it will be a
standalone event in late June.

 * If we co-locate JuMP-dev with JuliaCon, JuMP-dev will run as an in-person track
   of JuliaCon. This year, JuliaCon is being held 24-29 July, 2023 in Cambridge,
   Massachusetts. You can find more information on the [conference website](https://juliacon.org/2023/).
 * If we run a standalone event, it will likely by held 24-25 June, 2023 in Madison,
   Wisconsin, following [IPCO2023](https://optimization.discovery.wisc.edu/ipco-2023-madison/).

While we sort the logistical details, if you wish to give a talk at JuMP-dev
2023, please [submit a proposal to JuliaCon](https://pretalx.com/juliacon2023/cfp).
For "Session type," choose "Talk" or "Lightning talk." For "Track," choose
"JuMP."

 * If we co-locate with JuliaCon, you will need to register for JuliaCon.
 * If we run a standalone event, we will give speakers the option of
   transferring their talk to the standalone JuMP-dev, or continuing with a talk
   at JuliaCon.

## How do I give a talk?

**To give a talk, [submit a proposal to JuliaCon](https://pretalx.com/juliacon2023/cfp)**
**For "Session type," choose "Talk" or "Lightning talk." For "Track," choose**
**"JuMP."**

Similarly to [previous](/meetings/mit2017) [iterations](/meetings/bordeaux2018)
[of](/meetings/santiago2019) [the](/meetings/juliacon2021) [workshop](/meetings/juliacon2022),
we invite participants to present work related to JuMP. In particular, we
especially seek talks related to:

- JuMP core development ([MathOptInterface](https://github.com/JuliaOpt/MathOptInterface.jl), JuMP 1.0)
- Mathematical optimization solvers written in Julia
- Automatic differentiation in Julia
- Julia interfaces to mathematical optimization solvers
- JuMP extensions (stochastic programming, robust optimization, multiobjective optimization, ...)
- Software that uses JuMP
- Developer tools for JuMP
- Commercial use of JuMP
- Uses of JuMP in teaching

Speakers are encouraged to highlight challenges and lessons learned, not only
successes. Talks should be aimed at a general audience, but familiarity with
JuMP/Julia can be assumed.

See the previous workshops for examples of accepted talks: [2017](/meetings/mit2017/),
[2018](/meetings/bordeaux2018/), [2019](/meetings/santiago2019),
[2021](/meetings/juliacon2021), and [2022](/meetings/juliacon2022).

To contact the program committee, write to [jump-dev-2023@googlegroups.com](mailto:jump-dev-2023@googlegroups.com).
