---
layout: post
title:  "Steering Committee changes"
date:   2024-07-30
categories: [announcements]
author: "Miles Lubin, Carleton Coffrin, Oscar Dowson, and Changhyun Kwon"
---

Recently, Juan Pablo Vielma notified the [JuMP Steering Committee](/pages/governance/#steering-committee)
that he is stepping down (effective immediately) from his role on the Steering
Committee.

Juan Pablo was instrumental in the success of JuMP, supervising Miles Lubin and
Joey Huchette as Ph.D. students at MIT. Juan Pablo helped organize the first
three iterations of the JuMP-dev workshop: [JuMP-dev 2017](/meetings/mit2017/) at
MIT, [JuMP-dev 2018](/meetings/bordeaux2018/) in Bordeaux, and [JuMP-dev 2019](/meetings/santiago2019/)
in Santiago, Chile. More recently, Juan Pablo was a Principal Investigator of
the [NSF funding](/announcements/2021/02/22/agreement/) that has funded the
majority of JuMP maintenance over the last three years. In addition to his
non-code contributions, Juan Pablo also ended up being the author of many of the
early `BinaryBuilder` packages that enabled JuMP to distribute precompiled
open-source binaries to users. Juan Pablo now works at Google, where he manages
the team building [MathOpt](https://developers.google.com/optimization/math_opt),
a new interface in OR-Tools that is heavily inspired by JuMP.

Following our [Governance](/pages/governance) procedures, the remaining Steering
Committee members have invited Julian Hall (@jajhall) to join the Steering
Committee.

Julian is the lead developer of [HiGHS](www.highs.dev), the world's fastest
open-source MIP solver, and he is someone that the JuMP team have worked closely
with over a number of years.

Welcome Julian! We hope to share more information about our plans for closer
collaboration between the JuMP and HiGHS teams in the near future.
