---
layout: page
title:  "JuMP-dev 2025"
date:   2024-09-26
categories: [jump-dev]
permalink: /meetings/jumpdev2025/
---

JuMP-dev 2025 will be held November 17--20, 2025 in Auckland, New Zealand.

This is the week following [CPAIOR 2025](https://sites.google.com/view/cpaior2025),
which will be held November 10--13, 2025 in Melbourne, Australia. (Melbourne is
a 4 hour flight and 2 hour time difference from New Zealand.)

## Outline

The purpose of JuMP-dev is to bring together students, researchers, and
practitioners with interests in the methodological, algorithmic, and software
aspects of [JuMP](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl) and related packages. In
particular, we invite new contributors and those who have not met the core
development team.

All participants will uphold the [JuMP Code of Conduct](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Schedule

The workshop will be structured as two days of talks, a hackathon, and a local
excursion. Schedule is subject to change at any time.

 * Monday 17 November: talks at GridAKL
 * Tuesday 18 November: talks at GridAKL
 * Wednesday 19 November: excursion
 * Thursday 20 November: hackathon at GridAKL

## Key dates

 * September 27 2025: [talk submissions open](https://forms.gle/SzbqwzfsRNW97PZt5)
 * February 28 2025: talk submissions close
 * March 31 2025: talk accept notifications
 * November 17--20 2025: JuMP-dev 2025

## How do I attend?

To attend JuMP-dev, you must purchase a ticket. Ticket sales will open in early
2025\. Accepted speakers at JuMP-dev will receive a free ticket.

To request a visa invitation, please write to `jump-dev-2025@googlegroups.com`
with the subject line `Visa invitation letter`.

## How do I give a talk?

Similarly to previous years, we invite participants to present work related
to JuMP.

**Talk submissions are now open, and they will close on February 28, 2025.
Accepted talks will be notified by March 31, 2025.**

**[Submit a talk for JuMP-dev 2025](https://forms.gle/SzbqwzfsRNW97PZt5)**

We especially seek talks about JuMP applications and providing feedback on the
user-experience of using JuMP in industry and teaching.

Speakers are encouraged to highlight the challenges faced and lessons learned,
not only successes. Talks should be aimed at a general audience, but familiarity
with JuMP/Julia can be assumed.

If you have an idea for a talk and are not sure if it will be of interest, ask
the program committee by writing to `jump-dev-2025@googlegroups.com`.

See the previous workshops for examples of accepted talks:
[2017](/meetings/mit2017),
[2018](/meetings/bordeaux2018),
[2019](/meetings/santiago2019),
[2021](/meetings/juliacon2021),
[2022](/meetings/juliacon2022),
[2023](/meetings/juliacon2023), and
[2024](/meetings/jumpdev2024).

## Venue

JuMP-dev will be held at the [GridAKL](https://gridakl.com) in downtown
Auckland, New Zealand. There are a wide range of accommodation options within
walking distance.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d1900.7256269489792!2d174.75809299292328!3d-36.84403770139611!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x6d0d47f420b07ccd%3A0x754b09a7cddaa7cf!2sGrid%20Auckland%20%2F%20John%20Lysaght%20Coworking%20Startup%20space!5e0!3m2!1sen!2snz!4v1727393894842!5m2!1sen!2snz" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

## Program committee

 * Oscar Dowson (Program chair; local organization)
 * Oleg Barbin (Fonterra; local organization)
 * Mathieu Besançon (Inria, Université Grenoble Alpes)
 * Joaquim Dias Garcia (PSR)
 * James Foster (CSIRO)
 * Lea Kapelevich (Amazon)
 * Benoît Legat (UCLouvain)

To contact the program committee, write to `jump-dev-2025@googlegroups.com`.
